9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong. You're watching the
China show. I'm Yvonne Man with David
Ingles.
>> Good morning from the Asia Pacific.
We're counting down to the open of
markets in greater China. Let's get to
your top stories today. President Trump
set to deliver a primetime address on
Iran on Wednesday. That's after
declaring a 2 to 3-week timeline for
ending the war.
>> Hopes for a de-escalation in the
conflict lifting market sentiment. Asian
stocks and US equity futures jumping
after a rally on Wall Street while oil
is steady. Trump, meanwhile, lashes out
at allies telling countries facing
energy shortages to quote, "Go get your
own oil." With the Strait of Hormuz
still largely closed.
>> And OpenAI's valuation tops $850 billion
after a new funding round led by Amazon,
Nvidia, and SoftBank.
Welcome to the program. We're starting
things off with some breaking news
coming through out of the This is out of
the journal
that the UAE is preparing to help the US
open the Strait of Hormuz
by force. We'll get you more details
once we have more indications of what
that activity and exercise might look
like. That's the headline so far that's
crossed this time tomorrow. Keep in
mind, mark your calendars now.
The US president is set to address
the US and the country and obviously in
effect, of course, the world in as far
as the major updates in as far as Iran
is concerned. All that considered, of
course, markets are looking and trying
to figure out which direction we're
headed here.
>> That could be another element of good
news, right? On the back of what we
heard in the last couple hours on
President Trump saying 2 to 3 weeks they
expect the US to exit out of this war.
You also heard from you know, reports
from Iran and the president also in some
way also saying that they're looking to
also end this conflict. So, that's why
you are seeing almost this sort of
euphoric rally and a sharp reversal in
risk across the board here today. Going
back to this this scoop though from the
journal, they're talking about what the
UAE is weighing here right now. So,
lobbying for the United Nations Security
Council resolution that would authorize
such this action to help reopen the
Strait of Hormuz by force. So, they're
reviewing how to actually play a
military role in securing the strait. It
is good to keep in mind that they have
offered this before, but we'll see if
this anything comes into that's really
kind of be more formal sort of
declaration here. But, certainly that is
going to be the the one thing oil
markets are going to be watching very
closely here. If the US exits this war,
can we still reopen the strait? Yeah,
well I think the phrasing is important
in what they used, right? So, Donald
Trump said and this was before the
announcement on the press on the
briefing at 9:00 p.m. Eastern on
Wednesday that US will leave Iran within
two to three weeks. Now, whether or not
that is the same thing as ending the war
might not be. So, we'll we'll see what
all of that means. Semantics do matter
at this point in time. Here's in fact
what President Trump said about that
timeline to end that war. We'll see and
its main objective.
I had one goal.
They will have no nuclear weapon and
that goal has been attained. They will
not have nuclear weapons.
But, we're finishing the job and I think
within
maybe two weeks, maybe a couple of days
longer to do the job. But, we want to
knock out every single thing they have.
Now, it's possible that we'll make a
deal before that.
Right. So, the last couple of hours
there was that headline and then the one
about an hour and a half back on that
briefing that was scheduled is now
scheduled for this time tomorrow and
markets are leading with those two
things right now with risk assets
continuing that rally we had in US
assets overnight. Asia, as you can hear
about to see on your screens right now,
is extending that rally. Massively
volumes are coming in quite heavily as
well. Taiwan is coming online. Our up 4%
on that benchmark. Korea's up by 5.3%.
US assets coming up on your screens.
Here's a look at the dollar. US futures,
treasury futures, and the VIX index at
least the commodity and they the
contract on that as well. Still
indicative of this appetite to take on
more risk. Oil prices are coming off.
Oil, yeah, Brent West Texas, US gas
coming up on your screens as well. Maybe
indicative of in what way actually does
that matter for oil?
Because this time yesterday we were
talking about the US president wanting
to end the war without opening the
Strait of Hormuz. Right, just a reminder
of where when you look at Chinese assets
overnight, Golden Dragon Index KWEB,
some of the big names that did lead that
rally overnight. Flip the page again,
please. we can. Big rally there. We are
set to extend this rally
when Chinese markets open up and we are,
as you can see, better by 3% there. A50
futures coming up on your screens. We're
also coming off quite a significant
rally in as far as dollar China is
concerned. We are back below 690 on that
pair. Yeah, the durability of these
moves is certainly going to be one thing
to to look out for here. Of course, as
we count down to this prime time address
from President Trump uh 24 hours from
now. Our next guest says the Iran
conflict may be about to move from an
air war to a ground war. Joining us now
is Robert Pape, professor of political
science at the University of Chicago.
Yeah, he is the author of the book
bombing to win and also taught air
strategy to senior Air Force pilots and
officers back in the 1990s. Professor
Pape is also the author of a substack
called the escalation trap which looks
at shifting patterns in the conflict. He
joins us now from Chicago. Professor, a
pleasure to have you on the show. Good
morning from the Asia Pacific. You've
modeled the bombing the bombing of Iran
for the better part of two decades,
you've covered uh
if I'm not mistaken, every single air
raid in the history going back about a
hundred years.
Help us understand what you think the US
president will tell us this time
tomorrow.
Uh so, I think it's very nice to be on.
Thank you very much. There's no place
it's more important to speak to than
Asia. Asia is ground zero for the
economic consequences
of the Iran war. The reason is simply
that 80-90% of the oil coming out of the
Persian Gulf, the Strait of Hormuz,
heads to Asia, and this is not just a
shock an oil shock, this is a structural
shock to many Asian economies. Uh it is
a supply shock because as the price of
oil goes up, richer areas will be able
to purchase this, uh and that will leave
the Philippines, that will leave
Myanmar, that will leave parts of India
really in quite desperate shape, and I'm
leaving out Vietnam and many others. So,
thank you for having me on. Uh so, I I
don't know what President Trump is going
to say, but we have to remember that
when the bombing started 33 days ago, he
said this was only a few days. And we
need to understand that he is uh got a
very big interest in talking down the
price of oil and etc. etc. But on your
show just before you had me on, you just
announced the UAE is getting militarily
involved to uh in military operations to
take the straits back. Uh they aren't
starting tomorrow, but they're certainly
moving in that direction, and we have a
third aircraft carrier moving into the
region. We have uh 5,000 Marines, 2,500
already there, another 2,500 will be
there in about a week. We have uh the
82nd Airborne. What we need to
understand is we need to follow not so
much President Trump's rhetoric as the
deployment of forces. This is the number
one indicator about what will happen in
the future. Does it predict 100%
certainty? Well, of course not, but it's
a far better predictor than the back and
forth statements of political leaders
who have their own domestic and
international political reasons for
making those statements.
Yeah, and tell me more. I mean, the
Pentagon obviously has has moved
additional troops troops into the
region. I think our sources have told us
a third US aircraft carrier strike group
is heading to the Middle East as well.
You know, Professor, you you see that
there are signs that this could evolve
into some sort of ground war. What are
you seeing?
>> That's right. So, let's just look at the
history in the last year. When President
Trump moved forces near Venezuela, he
used forces in Venezuela. When he moved
the air armada in February near Iran, he
used that military force in Iran. When
he talked about going after Greenland,
he never moved forces near Greenland.
Nothing happened in Greenland. My point
is that the real indicator is the
movement of troops because that costs
money. That's expensive. That's a
billion dollars a day plus. And so, you
this is why the Pentagon just went to
the Congress for $200 billion.
To me, that means they're planning for a
200-day war. Now, I also want to be
clear. Let's say that war doesn't come.
These economic problems in Asia, these
aren't going to be over anytime soon
because uh the UAE and Saudi Arabia,
other Gulf states, unless they kowtow
to Iran, pay Iran, and and kick the US
troops out of their countries,
that oil's not coming to Asia. So, we
need to understand that there's a
military battlefield, and then there's
the economic battlefield. And what
matters to Asia more than anything else
is the economic battlefield, and that's
showing no signs of improving even if
President Trump were to militarily pull
back from the Persian Gulf.
And I can imagine what the oil price
reaction might look like once a headline
crosses that even vaguely indicates the
presence of ground troops, uh Professor
Pape. Now,
in terms of the the concept of
I I ground invasion can vary
substantially. It can be limited
control. Taking Tehran is a completely
different proposition, not to mention
the topography of that entire place,
which is, you know, we almost assume
that once ground forces are involved,
it's mission accomplished, which is not
certainly the case. Lay out the
scenarios you think we should be paying
attention to. So, right now, we're
talking about a half dozen small bits of
land that small numbers of troops think
1,000, 2,000 troops can take. And it's
important to know that the issue is not
which of those six or so bits of land
the two or 3,000 troops might take, or
several of them. The issue is the two or
3,000 troops cannot They can start, and
after two, three, four days, they're out
of ammo. They're out of water. They're
out of food. So, they can land, they can
take an airport, they can take uh
beaches of about a mile, mile and a half
long, but they cannot hold with any
sustainment whatsoever. And that means
once they're there, there's not only the
cost of getting them there, but once
they're there, then the question is,
will we just abandon them to die and be
killed over the next few weeks with no
ammo, no food or water, or are we going
to reinforce them? So, I believe that
it's not certain we'll start the the
ground war. I think it's more likely
than not, but more decisively, if we
start, even in a small way, this will go
on for weeks and weeks and weeks, not
just we'll try this for a few days, then
we'll back off, because to try it for a
few days means you're leaving a thousand
of our troops to die. That's just a
very, very unlikely scenario of all the
scenarios we're describing.
So,
can you I mean, obviously the president
has weighed certain options. He's talked
about, you know, just taking the oil
at Kharg Island. There's
other, you know, sources telling us
that, you know, there's an idea of
special operations to seize Iran's
enriched uranium. Do you think he'll go
that far, professor? Well, we need to
understand, the president has been all
over the map in the last 24 hours on his
uh Truth Social posts. He has said,
within the last 24-30 hours, that he's
going to walk away. He said he's going
to take all of Iran's oil. Um he has
said he will bomb the uh daylights out
of the different uh oil facilities. Uh
he's even said he'll blow up all the
desalinization plants, which would leave
uh tens of millions here without
drinkable water. Uh and this is really
all within a tiny span of time. So, I
think the idea that he's sending us
signals, and we're going to bet the farm
on what he said in the last post.
This is just not realistic. What we need
to do is come up with actual indicators.
That's what I do on the Substack, the
escalation trap. I am laying out and
mapping the stages of escalation. Before
the war, I laid out that there was
several stages of escalation before the
first bomb fell. Well, we went through
stage one just as the modeling said,
stage two just as the modeling said. Now
we're coming up to the verge of stage
three which is that ground beginning of
ground operations. And I always said,
and this was back before the bombing
started, these would always be presented
as limited territorial control options.
And it's because this was always going
to be an incremental escalation. That is
what the modeling always showed. And
that is what you are seeing on full.
It's just what It's just the likely
future. It is not the certain future. I
do risk assessment, not crystal ball
gazing.
Right. Yeah, I guess you allude to we do
live in a real world where
you could have a factor here or two come
in and maybe uh just affect the course
of events. But Professor, final question
for you.
Has there ever been a bombing campaign
that's resulted in a strategic objective
being achieved? In other words,
uh is
in some version of
uh in some version of ground
ground invasion necessary to achieve
that? Is is What is the closure we're
looking for here?
>> just so everybody knows, I've studied
every air campaign for over 30 years.
I've taught strategic targeting for the
US Air Force, uh written books. You
showed some of that. Since World War I,
when modern air power began, air power
alone has never toppled a regime. It's
never compelled a country to give up
something as big as say 20% of the
world's oil. We need to understand that
Iran now has massive geopolitical
leverage. It's arm twisting all the way
through. That is what will happen if it
keeps the control of the straits. I'm
not actually advocating for a ground war
whatsoever. But this is the pressure
that's the trap in the escalation trap.
It's the sucking us down. The reason is
we started a air war. It hit targets but
failed strategically and
catastrophically
because now the enemy controls more oil
than any other country on the planet. It
is willing to use that in vicious ways
and Asia is the is ground zero for the
consequences of this. This is really
going to hit Asia as a region harder
than any other part of the world and
it's because this is an economic
battlefield not just a military
battlefield and Iran is in charge of the
economic battlefield.
Professor, we could talk all day on
this. But thank you so much for your
time. That was Robert Pape there
professor of political
>> I'm not more uplifting. My job is to be
give assessments. I know. I know. And
and we appreciate it from the Asia
Pacific. That's
that
dark picture you painted. That was
Professor Robert Pape there. Thank you
for of course bring your research to us
and what he sees on this front. Of
course we're counting down the open of
trade in Shanghai, Shenzhen and Hong
Kong. You know, markets at this point in
some ways is trading like this war could
be over because of course what we heard
from Professor Pape was got to think
beyond just the rhetoric here right now.
We got plenty more to come. This is
Bloomberg.
Right. Um, have a look at how we're
doing across the most popular crypto uh,
moves out there this year-to-date. It
obviously hasn't been the kindest year
for risk assets. Bitcoin has certainly
acted as a risk asset. Uh, OSL's coming
up on your screens as well. The company
reported just earnings year-to-date.
It's coming up, too. Stablecoin payment
and trading platform listed here in Hong
Kong, of course. A lot of the business
in Hong Kong. A lot is also abroad.
Total revenue for last year hit an
all-time high. 62 More than 62 million
dollars. You go down to financial
statements. Core operating income up
150%.
So, you have a profit there. Net income,
though, by my reading is still negative
on the full year. To help us unpack that
and what it means for the company moving
forward, joining us exclusively is the
CFO of OSL Group, Ivan Wong. Ivan, good
morning. With the momentum you guys are
feeling right now, uh, what's big for
you this year?
Yep. Good morning, David and Yvonne.
Thank you for having me. Mhm. Um,
uh, we just announced our result last
night, right? And as the market and you
can see the numbers. Um, one, we deliver
huge growth last year. And second, uh,
we actually transform our business from
just a Hong Kong based digital asset
exchange into a global stablecoin
payment and trading platform.
If you look at our numbers, um, actually
right now, uh, Hong Kong only accounts
for less than 1/3 of our revenue. Uh,
this is a big contrast compared to a
year ago where Hong Kong accounts for
almost 100% revenue.
And second, uh, stablecoin and and
payment related, uh, business and
revenue actually accounts for more than
50% of our revenue, um, last year. So,
there was a huge change in our business
model. Um, and and uh, that's also the
result of all the efforts that we put in
to drive global M&A uh to expand into
overseas markets
um
doing doing the past 2 years. And
following up uh
and also consistent with our our
strategy, right? Um, going forward this
year and also the next,
we will double down to build up our
global stablecoin payment network. Our
uh strategy and mission is clear.
Uh we want to build a next generation of
financial market infrastructure for
stablecoins where we can enable our
clients to move money, whether it's a
stablecoin or fiat global money,
uh anytime, anywhere, um any size, and
with any currencies and stablecoin of
their choice.
Uh Ivan, the the big question is as you
of course transition into this more
global stablecoin payment and trading
platform is whether you did at least
apply or at least receive that
stablecoin license from Hong Kong. Can
you give us an update on on really where
where that position and where that where
you are right now?
Yeah, uh if you look at our business, we
are we are actually a more of a to be to
business platform, right? Uh so we serve
corporates, financial institutions,
enterprises, and also professional
investors.
And with that, um we we we actually
don't need to have a uh retail-facing
stablecoin license.
And and and that's why we are free to
use any stablecoin that are out there in
the market as long as
um the the listing of of the of the
stablecoin uh went through a proper
vetting process.
And that's our
position. We want to be a stablecoin hub
um that we will allow any stablecoin to
trade and exchange frictionless on our
platform.
Okay, Ivan. I I I will take it, correct
me if I'm wrong in the way I take it. I
take it that you did not apply for a
license nor have you received but you
can correct me of course if at some
point if you think that's not accurate.
So Ivan,
tell us now well,
what is the liquidity like right now?
Just people want to get a sense of what
the market conditions are and you have
perhaps one of the best viewpoints on
that specific matter.
Yeah.
So when when we look at the um
uh
trading volume and also the stable coin
exchange volume on our platform, right?
We actually see the market is very
vibrant and it's definitely growing.
When we look at the volume trading on
our platform for 2025, our trading
volume actually grew by more than 200%
year over year.
And we also see um strong start um to
the first quarter of this year.
Um so that's
uh generally very positive for the whole
sector and industry.
And secondly, from a VC and PE funding
perspective, um from a discussion with
um
uh with the investors in Asia Pacific
region,
many of them are actually very keen to
continue to invest um in stable coin uh
related business. Let it be cross-border
payment or stable coin infrastructure.
And uh third, also very important, if
you look at the um Asia Pacific uh M&A
deal in the Web3 space, right? We
continue to see um M&A deals getting
done.
Uh Babi also to Naver in Korea. We also
see deals in Singapore um
uh there are some local exchange got
acquired as well. So with the volume
that we're seeing with the VCP money
that flowing into the sector and also
the consolidation that we're seeing in
the exchange uh sector,
um I would say the overall uh sentiment
for the sector is actually very vibrant
as of today.
I was going to talk about OSL Pay, too.
Ivan, it seems like after 4 months of
this launch you've already been actually
seeing it generate more than a quarter
of your your company's revenue right now
according to your semi-annual report.
How important is this sort of new
channel of business for you and and how
do you see this business evolve as we
start to see more adoption of stable
coins?
Yeah.
Um
that that is that's a really good
question. Um OSL pay
and and also the company that we
acquired called Banxa is very important
to us and that actually forms one of one
of the
three core pillar of our strategy.
If you look at the stable coin space,
one of the key strengths that we have is
our ability to connect stable coin with
the traditional finance system.
Um
and that's what exactly OSL pay and also
Banxa help us to do.
Um that we are we are able to provide
the so-called on-off ramp payment
services
to web three companies globally and that
is the starting point
for one for the web three company to
integrate with the traditional financial
system and also for the traditional
finance company to start to get into web
three space.
Ivan, we got to leave it there. Thank
you so much. Ivan Wong, the CFO of OSL
Group. Your pre-market in Hong Kong is
opening. It looks like we are joining in
on this rally across the Asia Pacific
and what we saw on Wall Street, that
bounce that we saw on the back of what
President Trump is of course saying 2-3
weeks is how long it's going to take to
exit this war. That primetime speech is
going to be tomorrow 9:00 p.m. Eastern
time
Washington. You see Hang Seng up some 2%
in the pre-market. The open is next.
This is Bloomberg.
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
show. We're counting down to the as you
can see the likely gap higher across
these markets uh about the opening bell.
It's unsurprising given the commentary
that's come through out of the White
House the last couple of hours uh 2 to 3
weeks is the timeline that the US
president has given for the US to pull
out of Iran. And of course this time
tomorrow we will if all goes to plan we
will be unpacking what the president is
set to say this important this major
update on Iran. Yeah, that primetime
address is going to be quite interesting
to watch as we count down to what you
know this open and of course how Asia
markets react to that. But it's not just
the US, right? We also heard from media
about you know Iran's president is also
willing. So it's it seems like both
sides are in some ways looking at some
sort of off-ramp. I think that's why
you're seeing this sort of rally uh take
place here right now. So stocks are up,
dollar unwinds, treasuries are bid here.
And US basically the S&P had the best
days since May of 2025. So uh we're
following that sort of trend here today
in in the Asia Pacific. Uh you're seeing
massive rebounds in in markets like
Korea, like Japan, like Taiwan. Korea
certainly needed it given that it was
flirting uh with correction territory.
Um but there China looking a little bit
better but relatively speaking uh not as
well, right? So we're up about 1% CSI
300 uh is uh around that 4500 level
here. Uh you're watching Shanghai crude
obviously and is following the price of
Brent and following the price of WTI
lower. We're we're seeing futures down
some 7%. Uh the Shanghai futures seem to
be moving quite a bit. But in terms of
what we saw in oil markets it has
dropped but not as much I would say just
given that there's still a lot of
uncertainty around the status of the
Strait of Hormuz. We just had that
journal line come through that the UAE
may now be weighing some options on
trying to reopen the Strait of Hormuz by
force. So, there you go. More elements
and headlines to talk about, but for the
most part, markets are trading like, you
know, perhaps the end is in sight. And
really what's been dragging is
what's really leading this sort of rally
is the growth. It's the tech space,
right? These really beaten down sort of
sectors during this conflict for the
last three, four, five weeks. Take a
look at when it comes to chip space, for
example. Cab Recon Tech is up close to
3% here right now. Let's look at the
boards and take a look at how Hong Kong
fares here cuz certainly there's going
to be one thing to watch.
Keep in mind PBOC, they also came up
with a statement yesterday and it's the
first time they've actually addressed
some of the concerns around inflation,
the energy shocks as well, given the
external sort of shocks that the Chinese
economy might also feel. It kind of
echoes what we heard from Christine
Lagarde overnight as well. But then
again, markets are just trading like
it's it's good news all around. We're
also seeing 2% gains on Hang Seng HS
Tech and MSCI China here.
We're seeing the dollar unwind, right?
Given the positioning around, you know,
the safe haven and the like, you are
seeing some gains come back to some of
the EM currencies. Renminbi is back
below that 690 level as you see 688.56.
But the tech space, there you go, is on
fire. Tencent, Alibaba, Baidu, Meituan,
Xiaomi all seeing gains of more than 2%
here. Property is one to note here. We
have gotten some Vanke, Country Garden.
A lot of them have reported as well.
That's one thing to watch out for here
today. Vanke is the one today. Let's
take a look at the stock here. So, there
when it came to what it looked like, I
mean, it didn't look that good in terms
of the earnings, right? When you take a
look at what Vanke was writing about and
what they're talking about here today.
So, $12.8 billion loss.
And we're still talking about some bond
maturities that are looming. But then
again, we're seeing the stock up close
to 2% here this morning. Li Auto, there
was some news here when it came to
a stakeholder. So, major holders are
boosting their stakes with 230 million
dollars Hong Kong dollars worth of
purchases. The stock also up this
morning.
>> Yeah, there we go. 2 and 1/2% so those
are the two stocks we've obviously
flagged that we'll talk about. Apart
from that, just keep in mind
this income dividend story has also been
something that investors have latched on
to given all the uncertainty. So, things
like the CSI 300 Banks Index, CSI 300
Dividend Index have done very well
amidst the war that's been taking place
that's really uh royaled uh markets.
Apart from that, we're watching things
like turnover amid this bound southbound
flows. How much of that is coming
through from the mainland and being
fueled by that. Nike giving out some
rather discouraging guidance as it
pertains to revenues and growth this
part of the world. We talked about that
you know, a brief look at some earnings
coming through. It's also kind of
important as far as data goes.
Uh not that it would matter
in in in normal in as big a way as
normal days would would merit. Uh but
just to give you a sense of what's
coming up. So, you have the PMI data
that's coming. This is a private survey
coming out in about 12 minutes. Hong
Kong retail sales end of the day and you
also have Macau March casino revenue
numbers coming through as well.
Uh at some point today. Can we see the
graphic? Uh right. There we go. Okay. Uh
apart from that, where are we
on this? We are obviously seeing this
massive bounce today.
What a way to end just a terrible month.
Um it's not April Fools of course. This
is really what's happening across uh
what's happening. But yeah, uh April
Fools maybe. I don't know, right? And
then it's it's almost like ironic Good
luck today. Yes. that you know, the day
that President Trump announces this big
primetime address that's talking about
he wants to end the war in two or three
weeks. Um that this is all happening on
a day like today and and markets are
still taking it as pleasantly surprising
and good news, right? Let's bring in
Mark Granfiler, MI strategist. Uh
watching all the the price action for
us. I mean, we're seeing you You
equities risk assets are soaring here,
doll- dollars back down, oil's back
down.
I mean,
is is is this all really over, Mark?
Well, I think we've discussed before
that equity traders are inherently the
most optimistic people in the trading
community. So, any opportunity for them
to jump in and buy stocks, they they
will do it. And it's not too surprising
considering that Wall Street rallied so
aggressively last night. Uh March was a
horrible month, as you were you were
saying. It's the beginning of a new new
month, new quarter. People have got
fresh P&L situations. They'll be looking
at what they think is relative value in
markets. No wonder you're seeing a lot
of investors jump in today. I suspect
that April is going to be just as bumpy
as as March. There is still so much to
fix before people can really see that
there's going to be a lot of clarity. I
mean, just overnight, look at Christine
Lagarde. She was calling out Scott
Bessent saying that don't think you can
fix the problems in the Hormuz Strait
and the industry around the oil in the
Middle East just in a couple of days.
It's going to take a very long time. So,
Christine Lagarde is implying that she
thinks they're going to be stuck with
oil high oil prices for a long time.
Even if the United States does withdraw
its troops very quickly, it that is not
going to change the situation in terms
of the distribution of oil and the
pricing for for quite a long time. And
of course, don't forget Iran themselves
have put forward their own plans.
They've got points that they want to to
have addressed including, it sounds as
though they want to about to put tariffs
on the ships that go through the the
Hormuz Strait under their control. So,
investors have a lot to digest and it
suggests that the inflation picture is
going to remain high. That has to be
priced back into markets, which of
course was not the case before all of
this started.
I can't help but think about what it
means for Asia, Mark. I mean, our guest
a few minutes ago really highlighting
the fact that a lot of what goes through
the Strait of Hormuz comes to the Asia
Pacific, whether that's energy, whether
that's fertilizer and what have you.
And it it's almost as if
obviously we can debate the political
objectives that led to why we're here,
but most of that bill that is being, you
know, that you know, that other table
that's ordering all that expensive
stuff.
The you know, that poor fellow on the
back end of the restaurant is being sent
the bill for this. And when you look at
this rally across Asia-Pacific
today, I wonder how much I can actually
trust the EM complex the EM component to
this to this rally today, Mark.
Well, we just had
our colleague Gareth Brain was just
written on the on the block himself
saying exactly
what you're saying that he's got he's
skeptical about how long this can last
and rightly so. It was the the same I
think it was the Singapore foreign
minister just a couple of weeks ago who
said that this has become an Asian
crisis.
And he's what he was trying to say is
that Asia, as you say, is so exposed in
so many areas and we're already seeing
price hikes across the board. Here in in
Singapore, we've got taxi companies
increasing their prices. We're going to
have from today we're going to have
electricity prices coming up for
consumers. Now, you look around some of
the other countries they're already
having people rationing how much petrol
they're allowed to have and there's
shortages already. So, he's only just
starting. It is not going to be fixed
anytime soon. Asia's going to be
suffering for a long time. This all has
to be priced in to markets it will
continue to be so for quite a while.
Now, one of the effects of course is
that it's going to keep Asian currencies
on the defensive. When today we're
seeing the US dollar slightly lower
against some of the major currencies,
but that's just relatively minor within
the context of the big picture here that
EM currencies are up against the wall
and they're going to stay pretty weak
for a while. Look at the Indian rupee
heading towards 100. That's just one
example.
Now, if you think of
there's a lot of talk about what Jerome
Powell has said this week and some
people got excited because maybe there's
still a chance for the Fed to lower
interest rates. Just look at where the
10-year US Treasury yield is. We're
still way above 4% on US Treasury.
Recently almost got to 4 and 1/2.
The It's going to be very difficult for
long-term Treasury yields to come down
when oil prices are around $100. Even if
they slip to $90, that's still way too
high compared to the $60 we had at the
beginning of the year. So, Treasury
yields are going to stay firm.
Traders are not going to give up on the
idea that there's long-term inflationary
consequences here. All of that is
negative, especially for Asia cuz high
Treasury yields equate to weak
currencies across the region. That will
impact economic growth. That will impact
people's confidence in what's going on
in Asia. All in all, this is not going
to be settled just within a couple of
days. As much as President Trump may
wish it to be so, Asia's going to be
suffering for a lot longer.
Mark, thank you so much. Sobering note.
Mark Cranfield in Singapore for us.
Let's take Let's take you down the
anxiety ladder and talk about Chinese
property now. China Vanke posting its
record $12.8 billion loss last year, a
sign of deepening problems facing the
company ahead of this wall of upcoming
debt maturities. Joining us here is
Patrick Wong, our Bloomberg Intelligence
senior analyst, to just give us his take
on what you made of the earnings and
just the viability really of the wall of
maturity and everything else that we
talk about when it comes to the company.
Yeah, I think the challenge right now is
that for this company, we see the
problem over the past 2 years. The loss
is really sizable now versus like 2 year
before. And then the challenge I think
is about the maturity, right? So,
happening this year that will also bring
up potential risk on like I think
possible solution could be like for
example whether like the China the
Central Metro if they can really cover
up interest some cash on that, which is
is really depends cuz is they they are
not really covers their own company
versus like China Resources Land, China
Overseas Land, that kind of things. So,
whether the the cash injection will
happen or lot. It depends. And then
there will also be another things about
like for example, they hold some stake
on GLP and whether they could sell the
stake I like the GLP is also potentially
have a IPO happening in Hong Kong this
year. We'll see how it goes, but this is
again is also related to China
logistics, which is also not a really
favorable sector at this point. So,
overall still a bit challenging for for
the company.
>> Yeah, there's still concerns about
the deterioration of the balance sheet,
but but overall, I mean, what what do
you look at the earnings and the
fundamentals, right? I mean,
weak property sales and the like, I
mean, what's your outlook for the
company in terms of that that front? For
the weak sales, I think still
challenging because of all the for the
major companies here, right? When you as
a like potential home buyers, you prefer
to buy on some developers they really
well established, which can I deliver
the home to you versus like Vanke, I
think there's also potential default is
happening. So, whether you're going to
buy homes there, it really depends. And
honestly, we see the home sales decline
by like about 50% year over years
already for Vanke. So, it's a bit
challenging for them to sustain the
really sizable cash and liquidity to
support the overall the business
momentum.
All right, Patrick. We'll leave it
there. Patrick Wong, there Urban Land
Intelligence senior analyst joining us
there on Wong Ka. We have much more
coming up. This is Bloomberg.
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. A former president of Baidu says
that AI tokenization is actually
exploding in the Chinese market. Zhang
Yaqin is well, now runs the Institute of
AI Industry Research at Tsinghua
University in Beijing. He told us that
the so-called tokenomics will help
Chinese engineers work around high-end
chip shortfalls.
Chip wise is China is behind. But in
term China is ahead in terms of
electricity.
Uh China is ahead in terms of the AI
plus the application. China is uh
little bit ahead in those, but China is
behind in chips. China is behind in
probably probably the frontier models.
Uh
but it's different. You know, China in
in the in the frontier models, China
take a open-source open weights
approach. Uh and so the the China's
model is uh
open and also it's more economical. The
token is cheaper by almost order of
magnitude. Daily token use in China has
grown more than 1,400 times to over 140
trillion Yes. in March alone from 100
billion. Yeah. Uh this is uh it's
remarkable.
Uh and and and this token is not only
used by you know, from within China and
also by around the world. You know, if
you look at
this is used by Europe. This is used by
Southeast Asia. And it is used by a lot
of the startups in in United States.
McKinsey's Joe Nye was telling me at the
China Development Forum Yeah. it's
become one of China's biggest exports.
That's right. That's right.
>> proof. That's right.
But the the thing good thing here is
that you're able to produce those tokens
right right from from China. Use the
electricity here,
use the data center here, use the model
here, use the the chip here, use the
full stack here.
And then you you can, you know,
uh you know, export the capability of
tokens and the benefit
people around the world. The whole
notion for one-person company or company
requires very few people Uh is is very
exciting because I know with that if you
have access to token and
you're able to pretty much do everything
you know use
the coding agents
and you just tell them
you can
>> exactly What is it young long sha? long
sha that's right raising your own
lobster that was the open claw moment
that is
opening up opportunities for these one
person companies
>> that's right there's overwhelming
enthusiast to to to embrace this new
technologies open cloud obviously is a
wonderful open source
product phenomena
but you know if you look at there in
China there at least a dozen different
versions of of of cloud different kind
of clouds
and they actually work better than
original open cloud
so this is a form of agency right the
agent that's able to autonomously
implement your task not only to you know
have a dialogue like this but also able
to to you know take actions and do
things for you that is the the next mega
trend of
of AI so I generate AI How many
generations behind would you say China
is right now with the big data center
GPUs that you just talked about?
>> say probably you know I'm a I'm not an
expert on chips but I would say probably
two generations behind
but if you look at overall this is a
a system system engineering
you have to look at
the not only per chip performance per
chip but also the collective performance
of many many chips and and the
networking you know the the memory
and the whole thing right and the end
result is the quality
and the price of the token produced
Right I think you know, China is uh very
competitive.
Okay, that was the uh former president
at Baidu there speaking with Steve, of
course, our chief North Asia
uh correspondent. Okay, uh just to I
guess in some ways almost complete the
cast and the PMI numbers, this is the
rating dog manufacturing gauge.
>> Yeah, the private gauge uh was you know,
still in still expansion, but we are
seeing it a misestimates here. So, 50.8
for the China PMI manufacturing private
gauge here. This, of course, you square
that what we saw yesterday in the
official manufacturing PMI
numbers, which were also uh quite
resilient, right? Above 50. And does
actually uh
see a sort of a resilient sort of trend
across the Asia-Pacific. We did get all
these PMIs from the region uh this
morning, all of which were actually
still in expansion mode. Uh with the
exception, I would say, of Australia.
That was the first contraction we've
seen in 5 months for the PMI numbers
there, but the Tankan survey from Japan
was also a standout there as well. The
outlook seemed to be better than
expected, as well.
>> There you go. Yeah, PMI, purchasing
managers index, too pretty meaningfully
impressive. There we go. Uh also, I
think is pretty meaningfully impressive
is the ability for markets to forget
that we are in a war, and you just have
to look at the rally that we're seeing
today as perhaps
evidence of that, but of course, that is
backward-looking. We are hoping that we
have turned the corner on this. Markets
are rallying quite substantially here in
the Asia-Pacific. Uh US futures, do we
have Asian markets to to show? European
futures are up 1.8. We're coming off, of
course, a substantial rally in the cash
markets in the US.
85% of stocks in the S&P closed higher.
Volumes are about 15% heavier than
usual. So, this rally did have some
proper hot sauce behind it. Lots of our
head. This is the China show.
>> In some corporate news this morning,
Nike shares slipped despite beating
sales expectations due to concerns a war
in Iran could worsen weakness in the
region that includes Europe and the
Middle East. The sportswear giant posted
fiscal third quarter revenue of $11.3
billion
above estimates but flat year-over-year.
Sales for both the Converse brand and
EMEA region missed estimates. Huawei's
growth decelerated last year as Apple's
iPhone 17 made headway in China and
domestic challengers emerged in AI chip
making. The maker of smartphones and
chips reported a 2.2% rise in 2025
revenue to $126 billion.
That increase was down sharply from
about 22% the year before.
Unilever has agreed to combine its food
business with McCormick in a nearly $45
billion merger. The spice maker will pay
almost $16 billion in cash and the
equivalent of over $29 billion in shares
of most of Unilever's food unit, which
includes brands like French's mustard,
Knorr stock cubes, and Hellmann's
mayonnaise. This leaves Unilever and its
shareholders with a 65% stake in the
combined entity.
>> That's a very strange sandwich if you
use all of that in one, but just to give
you the
>> asking you to put it together.
>> the varied product line there.
Of course, McCormick.
Okay, let's have a look at how we're
doing across these, you know, this whole
This is something by the way that I
think people should be watching as a
beginning of a trend. So, this
China being able to sell the tokens
effectively laying out that
infrastructure AI infrastructure to the
rest and it's really playing out across
some of the AI plays. Not to mention
it's also there's also an earnings
component to some of these names you see
on your screens. Very quickly, golds
gold names in China coming up. Bottom of
the screen is the actual gold price gold
futures last we checked. Uh J G N and
some of the big names are going to come
up. There we go on your screens. Joining
in on this rally we're seeing across the
region as with of course gold price
which is up but not quite back at uh
5,000. Korea defense ripping higher.
Um couple of things here. I think for
one this journal reports on the UAE.
Um that's a report still by the way. Uh
it is pushing of course to I guess take
the Hormuz uh by force.
Uh we'll get more on that in a moment
but as you can see we're up markets
already running with a story quite
substantially. And of course some of
these big names like Hanwha Systems is
really very exposed to what's going on
there uh to that part of the world. Uh
Asia is doing quite nicely. I think you
really have
Korea and Taiwan leading the gains on
price.
But it's also worth pointing out right?
Korea and Taiwan have been really sold
off
uh by foreign money and foreign
investors these last few days or so. So
I think it's just maybe just buying this
opportune dip. We'll see. Yeah I mean
outflows have been quite substantial. I
think even bigger than even the likes of
of India uh given what foreign uh
investors have done. And we were
flirting with bare market territory for
the Kospi right? So uh they certainly
needed this sort of rebound and you're
seeing it with some of these growth
names some tech names here today and the
AI trade seems to be back on fire here
today on the back of course uh of some
of those headlines that we're getting
when it comes to Iran. So uh we'll have
a lot more on the way in the next hour.
You're watching The China Show.
>> Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the HSI half hour into the
session. Of course, China has been
joining in on this global stock rally or
rebound. How durable these moves are
going to be is certainly the key
question here as we count down to this
primetime address from President Trump
about, you know, 23 hours from now here.
I update when it comes to the Iran
situation. He's talked about what they
could exit this war in two to three
weeks. Iran's president, according to
some reports, say that they are also
willing. So, you're getting some
constructive sort of comments coming
through from both sides here in the last
24 hours, Dave. Yes, absolutely. And I
think markets are telling you that.
>> Going with it with very, very heavy
volumes, too. Um I don't trust it,
though. I don't trust it. The move in
the markets. And here's why, here's why.
So, if if the president tells us mission
accomplished,
the situation on the ground certainly
doesn't look like it.
If he's about to announce some massive
offensive, while that could mark the
start to the end of the war, markets
need to get used to headlines that bad
headlines that come after that. And then
you have news of of what the journal's
reporting that UAE wants to join in in
terms of reopening those straight of
Hormuz by force. That could also lead to
a lot of risks as well, just given that
could also escalate tensions with Iran.
Um so, certainly that Does that mean oil
markets will stay elevated for some
time? Obviously, that's going to be a
key question to watch. We got UBS's
Dominic Schnieder joining us in just a
few moments. But markets are taking it
like, look, it's good news. We'll take
it for at least today. Nikkei is up some
4%. Kospi's up 6% here right now. Taiwan
also following through here today. And
you are seeing that, you know, could be
a good Wednesday morning for the US when
it comes to Europe as well. Could be
waking up to that good news as well. We
continue to see those futures uh
trending higher this morning, especially
Euro Stoxx 50. Uh we're up close to 2%.
Though, you know, those harsh words from
Christine Lagarde was quite telling
here. Really kind of
in some ways getting back and and and it
really saying what's got best in was
saying that it's not true. You know, the
economic scarring is already there.
Brent markets, crude markets looking
like this here. We're seeing up slightly
here again. So we've come off some of
the initial sort of lows, I guess of the
Asia session here. We're hovering on
105, 102 for WTI. Shanghai crude though
still lower by about 7 percent here. The
dollar also has started to unwind just a
bit here during the Asia session. Uh we
spoke this time in the last hour with
Professor Robert Pape. He's the
political science expert, of course.
He's mapped out in case you follow him.
>> his words, either. No, he was quite
blunt about it. Hit this escalation trap
that he's published, by the way.
Uh you can read about that, of course,
in other platforms, but effectively,
here's what he had to say about where we
go next with the conflict. Uh this Iran
war. Uh he is with with, of course, the
University of of Chicago.
The real indicator is the movement of
troops because that costs money. That's
expensive. That's a billion dollars a
day plus. And so you this is why the
Pentagon just went to the Congress for
200 billion dollars. To me, that means
they're planning for a 200-day war.
I believe that it's not certain we'll
start the the ground war. I think it's
more likely than not, but more
decisively, if we start even in a small
way, this will go on for weeks and weeks
and weeks. Not just we'll try this for a
few days, then we'll back off because to
try it for a few days means you're
leaving a thousand of our troops to die.
That's just a very, very unlikely
scenario of all the scenarios we're
describing.
Now, President Trump says he now expects
the war to end within about 3 weeks.
This time tomorrow he is set to address
the nation and the world, of course.
Joining us to talk us through this and
where we are and perhaps what to expect
there out of Dubai
and bringing our Horizons Middle East
and Africa anchor Joumanna Bercetche
there. Joumanna, good morning.
Early your time, of course. Thank you so
much again, as always.
What
expectation should we should one have
ahead of tomorrow? Ahead of the
president's speech tomorrow?
Yeah, well,
as you say, the Trump administration and
Trump himself will be giving a speech
this time tonight, so 9:00 p.m.
US time. But I will say that the market
obviously is reacting to his comments.
He's given that time frame of 2 to 3
weeks. I will also just caveat that in
general he tends to give that time frame
quite a lot when he's talking about
pretty much anything. But in this case,
he says that
that is the time frame for how much
longer he expects this war to go. But
then two additional comments that caught
my attention. The first is once again
making that delinkage between their
military operations and the reopening of
the Strait of Hormuz. This was
explicitly referred to in that Wall
Street Journal article yesterday that
moved markets. But once again, he seems
to suggest that once their military
operations are wound down, the straits
will then invariably be reopened and
because other allies and other countries
around the world, including China, will
have a vested interest in getting the
straits reopened. So there's sort of an
assumption there that once the war ends,
the straits will somehow reopen. That
was the first point. And the second
point is he also doesn't seem
doesn't necessarily seem to imply that a
deal will have to be made in that time
frame. He went on to say, "You know,
there's a 2 to 3 week time frame. We
could do a deal in that time frame or
not, but ultimately the reason he's
giving that time frame is because they
deem their military operations to have
been so successful that most of the
objectives will have been achieved. And
just a reminder what those objectives
are, eliminating Iran's full offensive
defensive capabilities, diminishing the
navy, and of course ensuring that they
won't ever obtain a nuclear weapon. So
he seems to think, at least the way
Trump is framing this, is that it will
take another two to three weeks for
those for those military objectives to
achieve. But I just also want to say one
more thing, which is in line with what
your guest on the show said a little
earlier. Let's not forget there are
troops in the region, and according to
our own reporting, a third carrier ship
left the US yesterday. It's now on the
way to the region as well. This is the
USS George W. Bush. It will take two to
three weeks to just even arrive to the
region. So be mindful of that as well.
Yeah, the journal also has reported to
that the UAE is looking at options of
really reopening the Strait of Hormuz by
force. Obviously with with the UAE
joining in on this potentially, what
sort of risk would that carry?
So when we were talking about this Wall
Street Journal reporting yesterday
vis-a-vis the Strait of Hormuz and sort
of separating that issue from from the
military objectives, one thing that we
did also say was that the UAE out of all
of the countries in the Gulf states have
been the most outspoken.
They said many times that Iran's hold
over the straits is akin to economic
terrorism, that no one country in the
world should have this much authority
over the vessels that pass through. And
of course they have a vested interest
being one of the largest producers of
oil in the region as well. And so it
increasingly the language has become a
lot more impatient
and slightly more bellicose, I will say
over the course of the last few weeks.
So overnight, the Wall Street Journal
once again, reporting that the UAE could
be the first Gulf Arab state to get
involved in this war, not necessarily by
deploying troops or anything, but uh by
lobbying for a UN Security Council
action that would authorize them to help
with the reopening of the straits, maybe
help with the uh exercise to sweep the
strait from mines. Uh and alternatively,
uh and this is a US official Sorry, a
a a UAE official that's being quoted in
the Wall Street Journal article is
saying that perhaps one way that the US
could look to reimpose some authority of
the strait is by taking over the
so-called disputed islands. These are a
handful of islands, there are three
islands very close to the Strait of
Hormuz that Iran claims sovereignty
over, and uh there's some, you know,
this goes back four decades with the
UAE. They claim that they have
sovereignty over, and so one way that
the US could perhaps be positioned
closer to that strait is by reclaiming
authority over those islands. So, so
those are a couple of options being put
forward, but ultimately here, I think,
you know, this is about what happens
once the war ends in order to ensure the
free passage of vessels through that
Strait of Hormuz. And one of the options
being put forward is the UAE getting
involved as well.
Jumana, thank you, Jumana Berchech you
there, our Horizons Middle East and
Africa anchor joining us out of Dubai.
Let's bring in Dominic Schnieder now,
head of Global Commodities and Forex at
UBS Global Wealth Management. CIO, it's
great to have you back in town. Perfect
timing, really, to talk about these
latest headlines. Oil markets are
focusing on de-escalation today.
But, as we just talked about, right?
Reopening the Strait of Hormuz is still
a big question mark here right now. What
What's your base case?
So, if you look at our base case here,
that falls actually in line with Donald
Trump was saying, we're looking at a
confrontation still in the next 2 to 4
weeks. But, I think it's Investors
should not just focus on the base case.
Obviously, that comes with uncertainty.
That's probably more of a 50% chance,
but there's still a 30% chance that
things continue for a prolonged period
of time. So, I think we should not
neglect that environment. And I think in
that environment, we also need to think
about that the oil market is probably a
little complacent, really thinking
supply is going to come back. The
reality is we do have lost the 10
million barrels per day, probably there
about if you look at all the different
offsetting factors, and that means
demand destruction and higher prices.
What's your assessment of That That
That's very important, I think. To what
extent the li- You know, the lights
don't switch just back on if if things
ended tomorrow. Uh in terms of the
damage to infrastructure, how how much
oil has has been taken offline at least
for several months?
Well, I think this is still a little bit
unclear. I would expect that the bulk of
of supply is going to be back in case we
reopen up. Uh I would say within the the
first 6 months. So, I think that's
that's that's feasible. Um that should
bring prices down, but I think at this
point in time, I'm a little bit more
skeptical, you know, that things do
change quite dramatically. Um if you
think about all the outages that we
have, you know, it's unseen that we have
so much supply such a supply shock, and
yet prices are not even higher than
2022.
So, the market is complacent thinking
that things normalize quite quickly, and
I think that complacency uh is a risk
factor for market still. So So, if it's
they're complacent, where do you think
prices should be
right now?
>> think if you just look at inventory
dynamics, for example, and uh what we
see in terms of reduction, then I think
120 short term is is more of a a level,
and then obviously, if situation would
drag on for longer, we're talking 150
and above. So, I think that's a little
bit the more realistic price that I
think, given the issues that we have on
the supply side and also draw down in
inventory that probably more reflect the
need towards reduced demand. I mean
folks are probably thinking I should
have hedged and think folks are probably
thinking
at 115 if prices can get to 160 I still
should hedge even though it's expensive.
What is the This is a reminder of just
hedging strategies, isn't it? And what's
your advice?
No, absolutely. I think in this
environment you want to think about tail
risk and I think you can tap the option
market for example in oil to protect
yourself against unpleasant spikes even
beyond the 150 levels. That obviously
comes with a price. It's not going to be
free, but I guess your bulk of your
exposure in your portfolio is going to
be risk on anyhow. So having that kind
of protection is really just some form
of mitigating. The other part is I still
like gold. I know it hasn't really
worked in in recent days and weeks, but
I still think second round effect of
that war will lead to higher gold
prices. So that's one way and beyond the
commodity angle, think about head from
think about the alternative landscape
which actually performed pretty well in
2022. Yeah, can you tell us why gold
hasn't worked? Um
it it you what and what would it take
for that sort of safe haven sort of
appeal to re-emerge
once again for gold? So maybe first, I
mean in an environment where people look
for liquidity, that's one. Two, rates go
up and the dollar is on the stronger
side. You look at how gold behaves with
all the three factors. That's not an
environment where gold really performs.
It's fair to say that we may be you
know, gold is a little bit of victim of
of its own success because there was a
lot of positioning in the first place,
but I would expect as the market focus
more on the damage to growth
if that element comes in a little bit
more forcefully. I know we haven't seen
that in the PMIs that we
have seen recently, but I think that can
change quite quickly. So once the market
focus on the slow down a little bit
more, then I think people start to say,
"Okay,
you know, there's there's going to be
any rate hike." In fact,
longer term, there might be rate cuts
still on the table when it comes to to
the Fed. So, I think that element gives
gold the next push higher again.
Interesting. I like how you brought up
the the most recent, I guess, example or
playbook that we can brush off, which is
and what's worked. In what ways do you
think this this episode is is the same
and in what ways do you think it's
different about about likely what And
you know, there's a lot we don't know,
just a caveat there, too. Yeah, I think
we need to understand that into 2022, we
came with an economy that wasn't
steroids. I mean, we did a lot of fiscal
stimulus
back then also on the on on the monetary
policy side and then we had the the
supply shock from from the COVID period.
And then at the end, we got the the the
higher energy prices. So, I think it was
not just a double, it was a a triple
whammy effect from that perspective. And
we're in a different situation today.
We're disinflation in the first place. I
think the ability from central banks or
let's say from governments to do a lot
of stimulus is limited, too. So, you
will might have the pass through to
consumers might quickly. And the Q&T
money itself, you know, back then had a
lot of firing power. That's probably
gone today as well. So, I think we we
feel the pain probably quicker and I
think that should motivate central bank
to look through
that kind of inflation shock that we
have right now. Okay. Um obviously, I'm
sure you've been busy. We we we only
talked about oil and gold. I mean, I've
seen
concerns about supply disruptions in
aluminum,
helium,
fertilizer. I mean,
where are we seeing is the fundamentals
where you actually start to see those
supply constraints really kind of come
through? I mean, where are you seeing
the most sort of stress from that?
Well, definitely when you think about
the industrial metals, aluminum is one
far factor. I mean, 40% is energy costs
and energy costs have gone across the
board. So, not just in oil, but some of
the other
coal, for example, which has gone up.
So, here we're looking at aluminum
pricing heading to 3,750. So, there's
still a little bit more to go. Well,
copper obviously negatively impacted. I
want to think about the second round
effect because after that is over,
people going to think, "How can we going
to be a little bit more independent of
fossil fuels? So, let's push the green
narrative." And that means we're still
having more copper and so we're still
having the 15,000. So, I do like copper,
but that's probably the story that's
going to perform a little bit later into
that situation that we have right now.
And as for agriculture, I think the
knock-on effect is going to be a little
bit longer because
I mean, you probably already have your
fertilizer, but for the next planting
and prices have gone up, you might use a
little bit less. That might mean that
less supply is on the table. So, I think
there is a a more longer knock-on effect
particularly on the agriculture side. On
on the dollar, Dominic, what does
positioning look like to you at this
point in time? Well, things have flipped
quite a fair bit. You know, people were
basically
very negative dollar and now people are
positive. Makes a lot of sense. We do
have it positive terms of trade shock
for the US. You can even say, you know,
10% up in all prices, that gives you at
least 0.5% up in the dollar. So, each
day or oil prices move higher, that's a
support factor.
And if people look for liquidity, they
look for gold, they look for the dollar
as well. So, I think there are various
reasons the dollar remains strong. Does
that mean the dollar is going to be
great currency for the next 12 to 24
months? Probably not. We still have a
lot of issues down the road, the
excessive spending, etc. So, some of the
structural negatives still going to
haunt the greenback in the longer term.
Maybe some of the rallies an opportunity
to curb some dollar exposure. Those who
couldn't do it
last year get the second chance. Okay.
Dominic, thank you so much. Very nice to
see you, sir. Thank you so much for all
the insights there. Dominic Schnieder
there, head of global commodities and
forex at UBS Global Wealth Management
CIO. Right, uh ahead, OpenAI valuation,
get this, topic 850 billion dollars.
Massive funding round, you have the
likes of Nvidia, SoftBank, and Amazon
involved. More on that transaction next.
This is Bloomberg.
All right, uh we've been focusing a lot
on tech in this rebound, and certainly
one good news and or a a big development
that we've seen when it comes to OpenAI,
right? They've closed this largest
funding round to date as the company
pushes to acquire more chips, data
centers, and talent. For more on this,
we're bringing in our Asia tech
correspondent Annabelle D'hulst. She's
here with us right now. We're talking
more than 120 billion dollars of
fundraising here.
>> 850 billion valuation, I mean,
explosive numbers. Yeah. Yeah, really
really big numbers.
It's no April Fools' joke here. It's
very true. Yeah, equal first, but this
is something that's actually been in the
works for months, and and we've been
talking about the players involved in
this. They're still the ones we've been
reporting on, which is Amazon, SoftBank,
and Nvidia. So, yeah, 122 billion
dollars being raised. Just to break it
down, so 50 billion dollars of that came
from Amazon, and I think it's really
worth noting the caveats around this
because 35 billion dollars of that is
linked to OpenAI either going public, so
they have to go down that IPO path, or
uh they can also reach AGI, which
artificial general intelligence.
Probably the IPO sounds easier at this
point.
Nvidia and SoftBank, so they're 30
billion dollars each, so that takes us
to the 110 billion dollar mark, which
leaves 12 billion dollars left, and that
came uh from a few different channels,
but but including names like Andreessen
Horowitz, uh Abu Dhabi's MGX, uh D. Shaw
Ventures, TPG, T. Rowe Price. So, lots
of well-known names in the mix for this.
Uh yes, so OpenAI is saying essentially
that this gives them a lot of
flexibility now to to work on building
out
AI infrastructure as you said and
getting the right talent as well, but it
is a big focus or push now for the
company to try and increase their
revenue generation cuz overnight they
said they're at $2 billion a month
but they are certainly working on trying
to streamline their products and
increase that as well.
2 billion was also the figure. This is
this goes to the Nvidia transaction with
Marvel which was one of the biggest if
not I think the biggest percentage
percentage gain overnight. Yeah, it was
Marvel had a really big move overnight
in the session on this and actually
Nvidia was also high. So it's important
I mean these are chip both chip link
companies but but they operate in
different parts of the AI infrastructure
technology stack essentially. So Nvidia
is working on on well mainly GPUs but
Marvel is more about connectivity custom
silicon as well. So so yeah different
parts of the AI stack but essentially
yes it's a $2 billion investment and
these two companies are also saying
they're going to be working on what's
called silicon photonics together.
What's that? Well just in a headline
level it's essentially about
infrastructure that can speed up data
transmission using less energy. So this
is sort of seen as a potential
breakthrough in the AI infrastructure
space
but yes big news you saw the gainers
there overnight and
the the the company Marvel CEO
essentially going on CNBC saying it's
not a question of Marvel versus Nvidia
it's it's really not a zero-sum game
they're trying to increase and broaden
out that ecosystem and adoption.
It used to be Marvel versus DC but
that's that's a different that's a
different thing guys. All right all
right. Bell thank you. You've lost me
actually.
>> Okay okay.
Why did you get it? Well Yvonne can
explain to you I guess later. Marvel
superhero.
>> okay. No no sorry I meant DC. DC Comics
right?
>> DC Comics yeah yeah okay okay.
>> Superheroes I was trying to explain it.
Sorry
let me mansplain something here.
Bell thank you so much. I look at
markets before we take the short break
and we'll take a short break. I think we
need it right now.
All right, some more earnings to tell
you about here this morning. Nike shares
slipped despite beating sales
expectations due to concerns the war in
Iran could worsen weakness in the region
that includes Europe and the Middle
East. The sportswear giant posted fiscal
third quarter revenue of 11.3 billion
dollars above estimates but flat
year-over-year. Sales for both the
Converse brand and EMEA region missed
estimates there. Yeah, and also the
China business didn't look too good
either. Also, China Vanke posted a
record 12.8 billion dollar loss last
year marking its second full year loss
since its IPO in 1991. It shows the
deepening problems facing the developer
ahead of a wall of upcoming upcoming
debt maturities. Vanke is seeing a
long-term debt risk resolution plan and
pledging to find new sources of funding
this year.
Huawei's growth decelerated last year as
Apple's iPhone 17 made headway in China
and domestic challengers emerged in AI
chip making. The maker of smartphones
and chips reported a 2.2% rise in 2025
revenue to 126 billion dollars. That
increase was down sharply from about 22%
the year before.
All right, let's have a look at the big
movers. Tech is very front and center
today given the magnitude of the gains
and given the fact that you are of
course getting the heaviest and biggest
stocks in the benchmarks moving and
dancing this way. You are going to get
this sort of oof in these markets. 10.2
on Samsung. SK Hynix is just behind as
well. TSMC's up by 4 and 1/2%. It keep
in mind we're coming off of quite a
substantial outflows from these names as
well.
Just I guess as backdrop there. Uh
benchmarks and how does this translate
to their respective benchmarks and
across the region? Unsurprising, 6.6%
on the Kospi index. Nikkei's headed
towards the lunch break. We'll recap
some of the Tankan numbers which came
out earlier on. Next. This is Bloomberg.
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are headed out lunch break in just a
moment. Could be a happy day if you're
long these markets and finally looking
for some relief uh when it comes to uh
stocks here this morning. Take a look at
how the Nikkei 225 is doing. We're up
some 4% here on of course uh headlines
of what President Trump has said about,
you know, exiting this war in 2 to 3
weeks. Iran's president seems to be
willing to do so. Also, that Tankan
survey also in terms of, you know, the
data and the like were actually looking
pretty good as well, right? So, the
outlook for some of the manufacturers
was also uh quite positive. 158 when it
comes to dollar yen here and we're
talking about your 10-year JGB at 2.33.
Okay. Um
PMIs were also out uh just in terms of
the recap there. So, you had the rating
dog uh on China and of course the others
uh for across the region. And not to
also mention we have retail sales coming
through out of Hong Kong and Macau.
March casino revenues and as you can see
mostly uh beating estimates. Mostly in
fact coming in above that threshold of
where you are except with the exception
of Oz
uh that threshold of 50. Right. This is
really good context uh given this
let's let's call it this debate on where
the economy is because the numbers are
showing
the economies are still holding up and I
think the consumer confidence numbers in
the US did also show you something
similar there. So, the context there is
you then have ECB President Christine
Lagarde is said to have challenged US
Secretary Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessent's optimism that this
uh war in Iran and the fallout will be
actually short-lived. Now, sources say
that that happened during this meeting
of high-level G7 officials after Bessant
played down
the economic damage. Now, Lagarde is
said to have warned that the effects
will be felt for a long time because so
much has been destroyed. Meanwhile, you
also heard from the PBOC, the Central
Bank of China, acknowledging the country
is facing external shocks as the Iran
war rattles the global economy. In a
statement following a quarterly monetary
policy committee meeting, the PBOC noted
uncertainty in the inflation outlook for
major economies, but it signaled no
change to its policy stance, reiterating
that it will keep liquidity ample and
overall financing costs low. And as the
Iran war drags on, concerns about a
global recession are mounting and any
slowdown could weigh on China's export
engine. Let's bring in Shirley of
Bloomberg Opinion columnist. She's been
writing about this and joins us now.
Obviously, everyone talks about cheap
energy. There's tokens sort of exports
now that seems to be keeping things
going in China, but then again, you also
talk about there are still some risks,
external shocks to the economy.
Absolutely. Like
based on what we have seen the past
couple years, China's export in electric
vehicles can be a very political issue.
And then there there is also talk of
China's
leveraging its cheap cost of electricity
to export the AI tokens. Now that we we
have moved down to the application stage
of AI development and the people are
using a lot more tokens, but I think
that's also very dangerous. Just imagine
Americans using
data centers in western China thousands
of miles away. That's going to lead to
congressional investigations and
absolute usage bans. My argument is that
China as the
world's biggest factory should looking
to more traditional sectors, for
instance, toys.
Uh you know, just very simple
accessories, etc. Because
if you just look at China, there's
nowhere else in the world that has this
kind of scale. If you have something
that looks a little bit like a Labubu
that's going to take a hit, they're
going to make 10,000 versions of it. And
I think this is the area, the
traditional area, where China's exports
are going to hold up quite well. And you
have a real good example of this, which
is Santa's factory, right? Yiwu. Yiwu,
yes.
>> to us about the numbers we're seeing
there. Well, the the Yiwu suppliers,
they
they they they they basically didn't
really care about Trump's tariffs. Last
year,
exports from Yiwu still rose 20%. And
the in the first 2 months of the year,
exports from Yiwu was also holding up
very well, growing more than last years.
But the last
in in March, in the month of March,
suppliers, they say that
the their most prized clients,
basically,
suppliers from the Middle East, they
practically disappeared. People who were
in Yiwu, they were rushing to find
flights home, and a lot of them just
couldn't come. And that really dented
one of the China's biggest strong
selling points, basically selling to the
global south, right? With air traffic so
expensive now, and with Middle East, a
big chunk of the business not coming to
China, vendors are getting a little bit
more nervous about the war than the the
Trump's tariffs. Another another problem
is that China is a manufacturing
powerhouse, and that they do rely on
cost of raw materials.
Some vendors of construction materials,
they are cutting back on production
because they don't know how much, I
don't know, copper or aluminum or all
these raw materials will cost. That's
also hurting China.
Yeah, you've been also writing about
just overall this the the markets
reaction to this war and and and I think
this this popular trade that's emerging
again
in Japan when you have dollar yen at
around 160. Yes. Tell us more about
that, too. So, the carry trade, the yen
funded carry trade. It was super popular
in 2023
2022-2023
where the US was raising rates and that
Japan was uh still at the zero zero
percent, right? That trade that kind of
died down a little bit in 2024 when the
Bank of Japan started to hike rates. And
but the
but of course there is no official data
on carry trade because it's all over the
counter. But there are signs that
this carry trade could be picking up
again because BOJ is very reluctant to
tighten any further, whereas emerging
markets we're talking about jumbo rate
hikes, right? And also based on what we
have seen
during the last month of Iran war, the
Japan market is not doing anything
better than emerging markets per se,
right? So, as Japanese investor, you
will say, "Okay, I'm not that interested
in the Japan market because it's so
volatile. I'm safer putting my money
into the US US dollar or US stock market
or even emerging markets." So, that
trade is picking up again.
Fantastic two pieces there that we just
went through. Very surface level so you
can read about that, of course, on your
Bloomberg terminal.
Just check out, of course, every Shuli's
work, let's put it that way.
Right, also if you want to read or watch
that specifically or anything that you
might have missed here in shows, we have
this online video hub, of course, where
subscribers can explore news, live
streaming, interviews, and all
the Bloomberg TV programming slates. You
have documentaries, you have reporter
analysis, and much much more. Check it
out bloomberg.com/videos.
>> All right, we're tracking of course all
developments when it comes to Iran and
also some signs of diplomacy as well
where China and Pakistan have issued a
joint call for an immediate ceasefire in
the Iran war and for the safeguarding of
shipping through the Strait of Hormuz
which remains largely closed. Yeah,
let's bring in Minmin Low, our China
correspondent here to tell us about this
about the role that China is now
seemingly willing to play and what it
comes to the conflict.
>> think it still tells you that China is
only willing to talk the talk and not
much beyond that. If you look at the
five-point plan, the joint peace plan
that it came up alongside Pakistan, the
five points are number one calling for a
ceasefire, two do not attack civilians,
number three uphold the UN Charter,
number four calling for a diplomatic end
to this conflict and number five protect
the ships passing through the Strait of
Hormuz. So, very baseline demands there
that shows that China still remains
quite neutral and impartial in this
conflict and to be realistic this peace
point plan five-point peace plan is
probably not going to do a lot to shape
that conflict, right? It's very
different from the 15-point plan that
the US had put out, of course. You know,
that one was a lot more demanding
calling for
denuclearization,
giving up the enriched uranium to IAEA,
for example. But in this case, I think
it's interesting, right? It shows you
that China in some ways is riding on the
coattails of Pakistan here which has
been able to be the interlocutor, right?
Over the weekend it hosted a four-nation
summit with the foreign ministers of
Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Turkey. They were
all in Islamabad and right after that,
the foreign minister of Pakistan then
flew to Beijing against medical advice
because he fell when he received the
Egyptian foreign minister and he had a
hairline fracture in his shoulder. But
despite medical advice, he still went to
Beijing which of course shows you how
important this relationship and Pakistan
is taking China into confidence here.
But it also shows you that Beijing in
some ways is not able to be the one that
plays mediator between the US and Iran
here. State media, how how have they
been covering the latest developments on
Iran so far? So state media, I think the
tone has been pretty measured as well,
pretty much towing the line of the
foreign ministry. I mean, there is a war
happening, so they have been quite
respectful on that front. But there are
of course, if you you look at the
state-linked tabloids like Global Times,
they do put out these political cartoons
that are dripping with sarcasm. If you
If you take a look at some of the
pictures that we have uploaded. Um and I
think what is interesting is that some
of these editorials do make a direct
link between what's happening in Middle
East with what's happening in Asia. And
not in the way you think, right? You
don't think We think about the energy
crisis. Yeah, check out this photo. You
can see the sleeves there showing the
Israel and American flag toppling that
symbol of peace, the dove on that
chessboard there. And this one showing
Uncle Sam calling for help, waving the
help me sign to help to end the war that
it started.
Um and the last one I think is
interesting because it shows Takaichi
taking the drill
to the door of security there. And And
that's the interesting thing. It's
drawing direct links between Israel and
Japan and saying that we need to prevent
Japan from being the Israel of East
Asia, drawing US resources to provoke
militarism in Asia. And that's the
lesson it says that the world needs to
learn from the Iran war is that you
can't tie your fate to the US. It It's
always going to end in a disaster.
Mei-Ling Ho, thank you so much. Uh
important context and color there, of
course, given the coverage.
Our China correspondent there. Right. I
mean, we just ended
just there with of course that graphic
of the Japanese Prime Minister, who by
the way today
uh is set to meet the French President
Emmanuel Macron.
Uh
that's going to take place in Tokyo. You
certainly have this backdrop of the war
that's taking place. Security certainly
will be front and center, especially
when it comes to the the Strait of
Hormuz. In fact, the two leaders will
also reportedly sign a a deal
on supplies of rare earth. So, let's
bring in our Japan politics and security
reporter Alister Gale with us right now
to talk us through what to expect given
with this meeting taking place today,
Alister, given the the backdrop we have
currently.
Right. Well, of course, this meeting was
planned before the war started, so they
had different ideas about what they
would want to talk about.
But, of course, the you know, the the
Strait of Hormuz crisis, the Iran war
has completely overshadowed
President Macron's visit to Japan. So,
he's talking with Prime Minister
Takaichi this evening. We do expect
there to be some kind of statement.
Almost certainly it will be a reference
to the Strait of Hormuz situation. And,
of course, President Trump has new
comments about France in particular
yesterday where he was criticizing
France allegedly for not allowing US
aircraft to fly over the country. We
haven't had any kind of response
from the French on that, so we might
hear something from
President Macron.
He's also going to a university. He's
talking to business leaders as well.
But, the situation in Iran is really the
dominant theme here, as you might
expect.
So, realistically, what are what are
they looking at in terms of
partnerships, deals? I mean,
there's a sort of a maritime security
cooperation as well. What what sort of
the some of the realistic outcomes that
could come out of this?
Right. Well, you did mention you know,
the rare earths
cooperation. We do think that we hear
that there's going to be some kind of
framework agreement.
We're not quite sure how much detail is
going to be in there.
You know, France and Japan actually have
a very close security relationship. They
do military drills jointly
in New Caledonia in this part of the
world out in Asia.
They also have military technology
cooperation. So, there may be some um
details that come out on new areas where
they want to work together, perhaps new
technologies, uh defense technology,
perhaps new uh training plans for their
militaries. They are working on a deal
to make it easier for the Japanese
military and the French military to go
to each other's countries for training.
Um,
but we're not expecting too much in the
way of kind of sweeping declarations or
much uh detail, really. Uh this is
something that uh you know, um
uh they'll have probably have some broad
statement on agreeing to cooperate.
They'll almost certainly they'll refer
to the situation in Iran and say they
want to work together to deal with the
uh you know, the problem of shipping
coming through the Strait of Hormuz. Um,
but we'll have to wait and see what they
actually come out with. So far, they've
been very tight-lipped.
Alister, thank you. Alister Gale there,
our Japan politics and security reporter
joining us out of Tokyo this morning.
And US Trade Representative James Green
says he sees stable US-China relations
over the next year. He spoke exclusively
with Bloomberg Surveillance, where we
also asked him whether President Trump's
upcoming trip to China could be
postponed again.
Is there going to be a delay in the
meeting? I haven't heard talk about
that, neither internally. I didn't hear
that from my Chinese counterpart when I
talked to him last week. When it comes
to the tariffs right now, there's
Section 301 tariffs that you're looking
into when it comes to China. We've seen
China actually have their own
announcement that they're going to
investigate US companies.
This tit-for-tat we might see in the
trade between Beijing and Washington
back to where we're almost where it
feels like a year ago. Do you think
that's going to hinder the US from
getting back to the 20% level they were
at before April was struck down? I don't
think so. When you look back to the
Busan agreements, the agreements we
achieved with the Chinese last year, we
were seeking stability. We were seeking
to achieve, you know, achieve a level
of, you know, tariff application on one
side and a flow of rare earth minerals
and and things from the other side. Both
sides want stability. Both sides want to
see continuity. The Chinese know that
the United States is trying to control
for our, you know, giant trade deficit
we've had with China for a long time,
which went down by 30% last year, by the
way. So, I don't think it's going to
>> China's imports to other countries
into the United went up, and then those
countries are importing to the United
States. Don't you have an issue with
transshipment at the moment? So, there's
a there's always been an issue with
transshipment, but when you look at our
shipments from third countries outside
of China since April, right, since
liberation day,
that that deficit has gone down by 17%.
So, while there may be some
transshipment, overall our trade deficit
is going down. It's going down with
China. It's going down with the rest of
the world. It's going exactly the right
production uh direction. At the same
time, wages are going up in America.
Productivity is going up. Do you think
you're going to get to the 20% level?
Well, I can't prejudge the
investigations, right? It's Section 301.
We have to go through the legal process.
We have to collect information. It's
quite public. It's quite transparent. Uh
you know, we know what the nature of the
deal is that we struck with the Chinese.
Uh so so we will see. All I know is that
the president for sure is going to keep
protecting our economy. He's going to
protect our producers so we can continue
to have increased production in the US,
increased wages here.
>> If China plays hardball, though, not
just with their own investigations, but
potentially bringing rare earths back
into the foray. I know they're they have
basically till October there's a deal on
the table. Potentially then would you
look to maybe decrease the tariff level?
Well, you know, for
from our from our perspective, we're
looking for stability.
We're trying to achieve We're trying to
get the trade deficit reduced. We're
trying to increase manufacturing in the
United States, and we're trying to
increase real wages, and all of that is
happening. So, we don't see a need to
change our policy. The Chinese want
stability. We want stability. I actually
see a positive agenda with China going
forward, where we learn to manage our
trade with each other, where we pick the
kinds of things we want to be selling to
each other, things that are mostly not
sensitive to avoid some of the national
security elements that prove challenging
in negotiations.
I I see stability with China over the
next year.
Short seller Carson Block is placing
bearish bets on some of the biggest
corporate credit ETFs as a way to hedge
the risk of economic malaise caused by
AI. Now, Block told us that disruption
to global markets from the war in Iran
will pale in comparison to the impact of
AI.
The war in Iran, I mean, who knows? I I
think that this is a distraction from
the really big story, which is what AI
is going to be doing to the job market
in the next several years. So, to me, AI
is going to change everything. So, you
know, look, if the war in Iran ends
tomorrow and the strait reopens, markets
are going to rip.
That, you know, that dynamic, I I don't
think there's a way to really trade
that, or at least that I know of, to
predict that. But, what I am concerned
about is the long-term health of the US
job market and the markets. So, that's
That's my focus. That's what I can
That's what I can look at on the on the
long-term horizon. Well, just follow up
on that. I mean, you think about AI
concerns even before we were talking
about what's going on in the Middle
East. That was the defining trade of
2026 year-to-date. You saw the SaaS
apocalypse taking down a lot of the big
tech names, the sector as a whole. I
mean, in your view, it almost sounds
like perhaps that was warranted. Well,
that was the wake-up call for me because
Yeah, there we go. Carson Block with our
colleague of course Katie Greifeld's
some of the positions of course that Mr.
Block has has
either put in place or thinking about
and how he stick of course in the
broader scheme of things. Right,
speaking of markets are rallying today a
reminder and an update of where we are
as far as some of the different segments
of this sectors are concerned chips are
leading the gains. Samsung is up by more
than 10% today.
Some of the defense related names a lot
of these names are in Korea. It's not a
comprehensive list of course,
but it's really when it comes to this
specific group of stocks and their
connections business wise of course with
what's happening in the Middle East
Hanwha systems
Korea Aerospace are good examples of
that. Xiaomi's coming up as well on your
screens.
There we go and also just to mention of
course some of the deliveries that I
think were announced just a few
very very recently over 20,000 cars for
the month of March and speaking of just
the transport theme.
Yeah, I mean not completely should not
come at any as any surprise some of the
fuel surcharges and adjustments to
ticket prices
that we're seeing so Taiwan Airlines are
raising their surcharge for both I think
it's international and also
domestic short haul
fuel surcharges will be up. Sorry,
international flights. Yes, and also
actually domestic for domestic Airlines
for international flights. Okay, let me
just clarify that short haul flight
surcharge up to 45 from 1750
long haul to increase to get this 117
from about 4550. That's what rough math
that's 150%
increase in that. Yeah, and you you
asked a question to Paul Chan.
>> That's a joke.
The last question, right?
I mean what can you do, right?
>> Well, the airline He was like look I'm
I'm I'm paying I'm paying the same
price. Um but yeah, I think Hong Kong
financial secretary Um but yeah, air
fares I certainly continue will be
elevated I guess.
A lot of volatility there too it seems.
Well, hopefully we get some version of a
path to conclusion this time tomorrow,
right? Hopefully. Yeah, tune in. We'll
be bringing you live for President
Trump's speech.
Uh just a few hours away of course. Of
course, Inside is next.